docs/xdebug.md, before:

# Xdebug + Docker + PHPStorm - It's easy

This is tutorial showing how easy is to set up xdebug debugging for applications running in docker containers using php-dev image. I'll be showing it on simple Symfony application but you can do it same way for any PHP based application.

## Target application

Let's assume you have a nice Symfony application, you can create one for example this way:

```bash
docker run --rm -v `pwd`:/data/application -e "USER_ID=$UID" kolemp/php-dev:7.2 \
    composer create-project symfony/website-skeleton xdebu-demo-app
```

Now go to project directory. Your docker-compose.yml should look similar to [this](xdebug-demo-app/docker-compose.yml).
Being in the project root directory run

```bash
docker-compose up -d
```

In the given example I'm using [dory](https://github.com/FreedomBen/dory) http proxy (works on linux and OSX). If you dont want or cant use it, just expose port 80 but if you can I would strongly advise to use dory.

At this point the page is up and running:
![app running](images/01-browser.png)

Next start PHPStorm open dir with app and set up some breakpoint in index file.
This way you will know if debugging works.
![breakpoint](images/02-set_breakpoint.png)

## Configuration

Now it's time to configure PHPStorm debugger:

1. Open *Run -> Edit Configurations* from the top menu
![run debug](images/03-run-debug.png)

2. Add *PHP WEB Page* configuration (plus sign at the top left corner). Click three dots next to *Server* field to add new server configuration.
![web-pages](images/04-web-page.png)

4. Enter server hostname. If you use proxy, enter the configured name, if not, pass docker host IP (127.0.0.1 if you are not using [Docker Toolbox](https://docs.docker.com/toolbox) / [Dinghy](https://github.com/codekitchen/dinghy-http-proxy)). It is very important to also specify path mappings. Set mapping between your project document root on your dev machine and inside container. By default in container it is `/data/application` for *php-dev* image. Click ok when finished.
![web pages 2](images/07-mapping.png)

5. If you haven't done it yet, please fill name for the configuration.
![configuration name](images/05-web-page.png)

6. One last thing to check left. Please open PHPStorm preferences and go to *Language & Frameworks -> PHP -> Debug*
and check if port is set to 9000 and enabled.
![xdebug port](images/xdebug-port.png)


## Debugging

Now you should be ready, just open *index.php* file and click green bug icon ![bug](images/bug.png) on the top menu.
Browser should open but halt on loading and PHPStorm should stop on set breakpoint
![debugging](images/08-working.png) 

## Demo app

[Here](xdebug-demo-app) you can find working demo application from the examples. You just need to clone it, adjust the hostname in `docker-compose.yml` (or open a port) and run:
```bash
docker-compose up -d
docker-compose exec php composer install
```

## Thanks
**If you use often Xdebug [consider donating](https://xdebug.org/).**

Commit message:

Add info about dory and USER_ID

docs/xdebug.md, after:

# Xdebug + Docker + PHPStorm - It's easy

This is tutorial showing how easy is to set up xdebug debugging for applications running in docker containers using php-dev image. I'll be showing it on simple Symfony application but you can do it same way for any PHP based application.

## Requirements

- This image requires `USER_ID` environment variable to be passed to docker image,
- In this example I use an awesome tool called [dory](https://github.com/FreedomBen/dory).

## Target application

Let's assume you have a nice Symfony application, you can create one for example this way:

```bash
docker run --rm -v `pwd`:/data/application -e "USER_ID=$UID" kolemp/php-dev:7.2 \
    composer create-project symfony/website-skeleton xdebu-demo-app
```

Now go to project directory. Your docker-compose.yml should look similar to [this](xdebug-demo-app/docker-compose.yml).
Being in the project root directory run

```bash
docker-compose up -d
```

In the given example I'm using [dory](https://github.com/FreedomBen/dory) http proxy (works on linux and OSX). If you dont want or cant use it, just expose port 80 but if you can I would strongly advise to use dory.

At this point the page is up and running:
![app running](images/01-browser.png)

Next start PHPStorm open dir with app and set up some breakpoint in index file.
This way you will know if debugging works.
![breakpoint](images/02-set_breakpoint.png)

## Configuration

Now it's time to configure PHPStorm debugger:

1. Open *Run -> Edit Configurations* from the top menu
![run debug](images/03-run-debug.png)

2. Add *PHP WEB Page* configuration (plus sign at the top left corner). Click three dots next to *Server* field to add new server configuration.
![web-pages](images/04-web-page.png)

4. Enter server hostname. If you use proxy, enter the configured name, if not, pass docker host IP (127.0.0.1 if you are not using [Docker Toolbox](https://docs.docker.com/toolbox) / [Dinghy](https://github.com/codekitchen/dinghy-http-proxy)). It is very important to also specify path mappings. Set mapping between your project document root on your dev machine and inside container. By default in container it is `/data/application` for *php-dev* image. Click ok when finished.
![web pages 2](images/07-mapping.png)

5. If you haven't done it yet, please fill name for the configuration.
![configuration name](images/05-web-page.png)

6. One last thing to check left. Please open PHPStorm preferences and go to *Language & Frameworks -> PHP -> Debug*
and check if port is set to 9000 and enabled.
![xdebug port](images/xdebug-port.png)


## Debugging

Now you should be ready, just open *index.php* file and click green bug icon ![bug](images/bug.png) on the top menu.
Browser should open but halt on loading and PHPStorm should stop on set breakpoint
![debugging](images/08-working.png) 

## Demo app

[Here](xdebug-demo-app) you can find working demo application from the examples. You just need to clone it, adjust the hostname in `docker-compose.yml` (or open a port) and run:
```bash
docker-compose up -d
docker-compose exec php composer install
```

## Thanks
**If you use often Xdebug [consider donating](https://xdebug.org/).**
